KSQL was built by Confluent and released in
2018 in an attempt to bring stream processing to more users.
As with Kafka, connect and rest proxy,
KSQL is built in Java and Scala and runs on the JVM.
KSQL has built an open source by Confluent,
the major contributors and maintainers to the Apache Kafka open-source project.
KSQL itself is simply a web server that accepts incoming HTTP rest calls to
configure underlying Kafka streams components to
execute the stream processes described in our SQL queries.
Because KSQL uses Kafka Streams,
it uses a Kafka topic as a change log and
RocksDB store local state on every node where KSQL is deployed.
KSQL provides a few options for interaction.
First, you can use as rest API.
We're not going to cover this in this class,
but it is an option that you can feel free to explore if you'd like.
My personal favorite option for exploration is to use KSQL CLI,
and you'll see me use this in all the demos in this class section.
A KSQL CLI is a commandline tool that works similarly to tools like PSQL for postgres.
You connect to a server and can then run interactive queries.
It's really fun to see your applications come together in real-time.
The final option is what you should do in production.
In production, you should place a file containing
your desired SQL queries on your KSQL hosts and start them up.
The KSQL web server will then load
this SQL file and automatically execute the queries described within it.